Welcome back. In the last video,
we introduced you to the
first four security domains.
In this video, we'll introduce
you to the next four
security domains:
identity and access management,
security assessment and testing,
security operations, and
software development security.
Familiarizing yourself
with these domains will
allow you to navigate the
complex world of security.
The domains outline and organize
how a team of security
professionals work together.
Depending on the organization,
analyst roles may sit
at the intersection of
multiple domains or focus
on one specific domain.
Knowing where a particular role
fits within the
security landscape
will help you prepare
for job interviews
and work as part of a
full security team.
Let's move into
the fifth domain:
identity and access management.
Identity and access management
focuses on keeping
data secure, by
ensuring users follow
established policies
to control and manage
physical assets,
like office spaces, and
logical assets, such as
networks and applications.
Validating the identities of
employees and
documenting access roles
are essential to maintaining
the organization's physical
and digital security.
For example, as a
security analyst,
you may be tasked
with setting up
employees' keycard
access to buildings.
The sixth domain is security
assessment and testing.
This domain focuses on
conducting security
control testing,
collecting and analyzing
data, and conducting
security audits to monitor for
risks, threats, and
vulnerabilities.
Security analysts may
conduct regular audits of
user permissions,
to make sure that
users have the correct
level of access.
For example, access to
payroll information is often
limited to certain employees, so
analysts may be asked to
regularly audit permissions to
ensure that no
unauthorized person
can view employee salaries.
The seventh domain is
security operations.
This domain focuses
on conducting
investigations and implementing
preventative measures.
Imagine that you, as
a security analyst,
receive an alert that
an unknown device has been
connected to your
internal network.
You would need to follow
the organization's policies
and procedures to quickly
stop the potential threat.
The final, eighth domain is
software development security.
This domain focuses on using
secure coding practices,
which are a set of recommended
guidelines that are used
to create secure
applications and services.
A security analyst may work with
software development
teams to ensure
security practices
are incorporated
into the software
development life-cycle.
If, for example,
one of your partner teams is
creating a new mobile app,
then you may be asked to
advise on the
password policies or
ensure that any user data is
properly secured and managed.
That ends our introduction to
CISSP's eight security domains.
Challenge yourself to
better understand each of
these domains and
how they affect
the overall security
of an organization.
While they may still be a bit
unclear to you this
early in the program,
these domains will
be discussed in
greater detail in the next
course. See you there!